doc/modules/base-libraries/pages/stdlib-intro.adoc, before:

= Using {proglang} base modules
:proglang: Motoko
:company-id: DFINITY

The design of {proglang} strives to minimize built-in types and operations.
Instead of built-in types, {proglang} provides a base library of modules to handle many kinds of common operations and make the language feel complete.
This base library is still evolving with modules that support core features and all of the base library APIs are subject to change over time to varying degrees.
You should note, in particular, that the size and number of modules and functions included in the base library is likely to increase dramatically and updates to the base library modules might introduce breaking changes that require you to update your programs to remain compatible.

== Importing from the base library

To import from the base library, use the `import` keyword followed by a local module name and a URL where the `import` declaration can find the moduke you want to import.
For example:

....
import Debug "mo:base/Debug";
Debug.print("hello world");
....

This example illustrates how to import {proglang} code—indicated by using the `mo:` prefix—using the `base/` base library path and the module name `Debug`.
You can also import {proglang} code and other modules using relative paths.
For example, if you have created a {proglang} program named `+types.mo+` in the same folder as your main program, you could include it with an import declaration like this:

....
import Types "./types";
....

== Viewing the base library modules

You can find source code and documentation for {proglang} base modules in the link:https://github.com/dfinity/motoko-base[motoko-base] open source repository.

You can also search for documentation by using Search in the link:sdk.dfinity.org[Developer Center].

Commit message:

Add info about local documentation and remove the nowhere link (#211)

doc/modules/base-libraries/pages/stdlib-intro.adoc, after:

= Using {proglang} base modules
:proglang: Motoko
:company-id: DFINITY

The design of {proglang} strives to minimize built-in types and operations.
Instead of built-in types, {proglang} provides a base library of modules to handle many kinds of common operations and make the language feel complete.
This base library is still evolving with modules that support core features and all of the base library APIs are subject to change over time to varying degrees.
You should note, in particular, that the size and number of modules and functions included in the base library is likely to increase dramatically and updates to the base library modules might introduce breaking changes that require you to update your programs to remain compatible.

== Importing from the base library

To import from the base library, use the `import` keyword followed by a local module name and a URL where the `import` declaration can find the moduke you want to import.
For example:

....
import Debug "mo:base/Debug";
Debug.print("hello world");
....

This example illustrates how to import {proglang} code—indicated by using the `mo:` prefix—using the `base/` base library path and the module name `Debug`.
You can also import {proglang} code and other modules using relative paths.
For example, if you have created a {proglang} program named `+types.mo+` in the same folder as your main program, you could include it with an import declaration like this:

....
import Types "./types";
....

== Viewing the base library modules

You can find source code and documentation for {proglang} base modules in the link:https://github.com/dfinity/motoko-base[motoko-base] open source repository.
There are instructions in the repository for generating a local copy of the current documentation for the {proglang} base library.

You can also search for documentation by using Search in any page of the Developer Center.
