modules/base-libraries/pages/Char.adoc, before:

[[module.Char]]
= Char

Characters

[[toWord32]]
== toWord32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let toWord32 : (c : Char) -> Word32
----

Convert character `c` to a word containing its Unicode scalar value.

[[fromNat32]]
== fromNat32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromNat32 : (w : Nat32) -> Char
----

Convert `w` to a character.
Traps if `w` is not a valid Unicode scalar value.
Value `w` is valid if, and only if, `w < 0xD800 or (0xE000 <= w and w <= 0x10FFFF)`.

[[fromWord32]]
== fromWord32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromWord32 : (w : Word32) -> Char
----

Convert word `w` to a character.
Traps if `w` is not a valid Unicode scalar value.
Value `w` is valid if, and only if, `w < 0xD800 or (0xE000 <= w and w <= 0x10FFFF)`.

[[toText]]
== toText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let toText : (c : Char) -> Text
----

Convert character `c` to single character text.

[[isDigit]]
== isDigit

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isDigit(c : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `true` when `c` is a decimal digit between `0` and `9`, otherwise `false`.

[[isWhitespace]]
== isWhitespace

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isWhitespace : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _White_Space_ property of `c`.

[[isLowercase]]
== isLowercase

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isLowercase : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Lowercase_ property of `c`.

[[isUppercase]]
== isUppercase

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isUppercase : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Uppercase_ property of `c`.

[[isAlphabetic]]
== isAlphabetic

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isAlphabetic : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Alphabetic_ property of `c`.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x == y`.

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x != y`.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x < y`.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x <= y`.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x > y`.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x >= y`.

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(x : Char, y : Char) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the order of `x` and `y`.

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ 7e3436de9e231116730e9e74cc0dc7fad5095efa 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/Char.adoc, after:

[[module.Char]]
= Char

Characters

[[toNat32]]
== toNat32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let toNat32 : (c : Char) -> Nat32
----

Convert character `c` to a word containing its Unicode scalar value.

[[toWord32]]
== toWord32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let toWord32 : (c : Char) -> Word32
----

Convert character `c` to a word containing its Unicode scalar value.

@deprecated Please use `Char.toNat32` or `Word32.fromChar`

[[fromNat32]]
== fromNat32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromNat32 : (w : Nat32) -> Char
----

Convert `w` to a character.
Traps if `w` is not a valid Unicode scalar value.
Value `w` is valid if, and only if, `w < 0xD800 or (0xE000 <= w and w <= 0x10FFFF)`.

[[fromWord32]]
== fromWord32

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromWord32 : (w : Word32) -> Char
----

Convert word `w` to a character.
Traps if `w` is not a valid Unicode scalar value.
Value `w` is valid if, and only if, `w < 0xD800 or (0xE000 <= w and w <= 0x10FFFF)`.

@deprecated Please use `Char.fromNat32` or `Word32.toChar`

[[toText]]
== toText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let toText : (c : Char) -> Text
----

Convert character `c` to single character text.

[[isDigit]]
== isDigit

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isDigit(c : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `true` when `c` is a decimal digit between `0` and `9`, otherwise `false`.

[[isWhitespace]]
== isWhitespace

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isWhitespace : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _White_Space_ property of `c`.

[[isLowercase]]
== isLowercase

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isLowercase : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Lowercase_ property of `c`.

[[isUppercase]]
== isUppercase

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isUppercase : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Uppercase_ property of `c`.

[[isAlphabetic]]
== isAlphabetic

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let isAlphabetic : (c : Char) -> Bool
----

Returns the Unicode _Alphabetic_ property of `c`.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x == y`.

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x != y`.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x < y`.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x <= y`.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x > y`.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(x : Char, y : Char) : Bool
----

Returns `x >= y`.

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(x : Char, y : Char) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the order of `x` and `y`.
