modules/base-libraries/pages/Hash.adoc, before:

[[module.Hash]]
= Hash

Hash values

[[type.Hash]]
== Hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Hash = Nat32
----

Hash values represent a string of _hash bits_, packed into a `Nat32`.

[[length]]
== length

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let length : Nat
----

The hash length, always 31.

[[bit]]
== bit

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func bit(h : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], pos : Nat) : Bool
----

Project a given bit from the bit vector.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(ha : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], hb : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]) : Bool
----

Test if two hashes are equal

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(i : Nat) : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]
----



[[debugPrintBits]]
== debugPrintBits

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func debugPrintBits(bits : xref:#type.Hash[Hash])
----



[[debugPrintBitsRev]]
== debugPrintBitsRev

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func debugPrintBitsRev(bits : xref:#type.Hash[Hash])
----



[[hashNat8]]
== hashNat8

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hashNat8(key : pass:[[]xref:#type.Hash[Hash]pass:[]]) : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]
----

Jenkin's one at a time:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jenkins_hash_function#one_at_a_time

The input type should actually be `[Nat8]`.
Note: Be sure to explode each `Nat8` of a `Nat32` into its own `Nat32`, and to shift into lower 8 bits.

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ 9d401ea02dbe8e3f67df8b479748b07fc95fdffd 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/Hash.adoc, after:

[[module.Hash]]
= Hash

Hash values

[[type.Hash]]
== Hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Hash = Nat32
----

Hash values represent a string of _hash bits_, packed into a `Nat32`.

[[length]]
== length

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let length : Nat
----

The hash length, always 31.

[[bit]]
== bit

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func bit(h : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], pos : Nat) : Bool
----

Project a given bit from the bit vector.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(ha : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], hb : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]) : Bool
----

Test if two hashes are equal

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(n : Nat) : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]
----

Computes a hash from the least significant 32-bits of `n`, ignoring other bits.
@deprecated For large `Nat` values consider using a bespoke hash function that considers all of the argument's bits.

[[debugPrintBits]]
== debugPrintBits

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func debugPrintBits(bits : xref:#type.Hash[Hash])
----

@deprecated This function will be removed in future.

[[debugPrintBitsRev]]
== debugPrintBitsRev

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func debugPrintBitsRev(bits : xref:#type.Hash[Hash])
----

@deprecated This function will be removed in future.

[[hashNat8]]
== hashNat8

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hashNat8(key : pass:[[]xref:#type.Hash[Hash]pass:[]]) : xref:#type.Hash[Hash]
----

Jenkin's one at a time:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jenkins_hash_function#one_at_a_time

The input type should actually be `[Nat8]`.
Note: Be sure to explode each `Nat8` of a `Nat32` into its own `Nat32`, and to shift into lower 8 bits.
@deprecated This function may be removed or changed in future.
