modules/base-libraries/pages/Principal.adoc, before:

[[module.Principal]]
= Principal

Module for interacting with Principals (users and canisters).

Principals are used to identify entities that can interact with the Internet
Computer. These entities are either users or canisters.

Example textual representation of Principals:

`un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai`

In Motoko, there is a primitive Principal type called `Principal`. As an example
of where you might see Principals, you can access the Principal of the
caller of your shared function.

```motoko no-repl
shared(msg) func foo() {
  let caller : Principal = msg.caller;
};
```

Then, you can use this module to work with the `Principal`.

Import from the base library to use this module.
```motoko name=import
import Principal "mo:base/Principal";
```

[[type.Principal]]
== Principal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Principal = Prim.Types.Principal
----



[[fromActor]]
== fromActor

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromActor(a : actor {  }) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Get the `Principal` identifier of an actor.

Example:
```motoko include=import no-repl
actor MyCanister {
  func getPrincipal() : Principal {
    let principal = Principal.fromActor(MyCanister);
  }
}
```

[[toBlob]]
== toBlob

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toBlob(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Blob
----

Convert a `Principal` to its `Blob` (bytes) representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let blob = Principal.toBlob(principal); // => \00\00\00\00\00\30\00\D3\01\01
```

[[fromBlob]]
== fromBlob

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromBlob(b : Blob) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Converts a `Blob` (bytes) representation of a `Principal` to a `Principal` value.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let blob = "\00\00\00\00\00\30\00\D3\01\01" : Blob;
let principal = Principal.fromBlob(blob);
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[toText]]
== toText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toText(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Text
----

Converts a `Principal` to its `Text` representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[fromText]]
== fromText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromText(t : Text) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Converts a `Text` representation of a `Principal` to a `Principal` value.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[isAnonymous]]
== isAnonymous

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isAnonymous(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Checks if the given principal represents an anonymous user.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.isAnonymous(principal) // => false
```

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(principal : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----

Hashes the given principal by hashing its `Blob` representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.hash(principal) // => 2_742_573_646
```

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

General purpose comparison function for `Principal`. Returns the `Order` (
either `#less`, `#equal`, or `#greater`) of comparing `principal1` with
`principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.compare(principal1, principal2) // => #equal
```

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Equality function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 == principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.equal(principal1, principal2);
principal1 == principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `==` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `==`
as a function value at the moment.

Example:
```motoko include=import
import Buffer "mo:base/Buffer";

let buffer1 = Buffer.Buffer<Principal>(3);
let buffer2 = Buffer.Buffer<Principal>(3);
Buffer.equal(buffer1, buffer2, Principal.equal) // => true
```

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Inequality function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 != principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.notEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 != principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `!=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `!=`
as a function value at the moment.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Less than" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 < principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.less(principal1, principal2);
principal1 < principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `<` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `<`
as a function value at the moment.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Less than or equal to" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 <= principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.lessOrEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 <= principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `<=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `<=`
as a function value at the moment.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Greater than" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 > principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.greater(principal1, principal2);
principal1 > principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `>` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `>`
as a function value at the moment.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Greater than or equal to" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 >= principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.greaterOrEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 >= principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `>=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `>=`
as a function value at the moment.

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ 32fdc79b808bcb65bed42240c2d2eb7359642b1b 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/Principal.adoc, after:

[[module.Principal]]
= Principal

Module for interacting with Principals (users and canisters).

Principals are used to identify entities that can interact with the Internet
Computer. These entities are either users or canisters.

Example textual representation of Principals:

`un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai`

In Motoko, there is a primitive Principal type called `Principal`. As an example
of where you might see Principals, you can access the Principal of the
caller of your shared function.

```motoko no-repl
shared(msg) func foo() {
  let caller : Principal = msg.caller;
};
```

Then, you can use this module to work with the `Principal`.

Import from the base library to use this module.
```motoko name=import
import Principal "mo:base/Principal";
```

[[type.Principal]]
== Principal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Principal = Prim.Types.Principal
----



[[fromActor]]
== fromActor

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromActor(a : actor {  }) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Get the `Principal` identifier of an actor.

Example:
```motoko include=import no-repl
actor MyCanister {
  func getPrincipal() : Principal {
    let principal = Principal.fromActor(MyCanister);
  }
}
```

[[toBlob]]
== toBlob

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toBlob(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Blob
----

Convert a `Principal` to its `Blob` (bytes) representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let blob = Principal.toBlob(principal); // => \00\00\00\00\00\30\00\D3\01\01
```

[[fromBlob]]
== fromBlob

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromBlob(b : Blob) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Converts a `Blob` (bytes) representation of a `Principal` to a `Principal` value.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let blob = "\00\00\00\00\00\30\00\D3\01\01" : Blob;
let principal = Principal.fromBlob(blob);
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[toText]]
== toText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toText(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Text
----

Converts a `Principal` to its `Text` representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[fromText]]
== fromText

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromText(t : Text) : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]
----

Converts a `Text` representation of a `Principal` to a `Principal` value.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.toText(principal) // => "un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai"
```

[[isAnonymous]]
== isAnonymous

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isAnonymous(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Checks if the given principal represents an anonymous user.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.isAnonymous(principal) // => false
```

[[isController]]
== isController

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isController(p : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Checks if the given principal can control this canister.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.isController(principal) // => false
```

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(principal : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----

Hashes the given principal by hashing its `Blob` representation.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.hash(principal) // => 2_742_573_646
```

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

General purpose comparison function for `Principal`. Returns the `Order` (
either `#less`, `#equal`, or `#greater`) of comparing `principal1` with
`principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
Principal.compare(principal1, principal2) // => #equal
```

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Equality function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 == principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.equal(principal1, principal2);
principal1 == principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `==` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `==`
as a function value at the moment.

Example:
```motoko include=import
import Buffer "mo:base/Buffer";

let buffer1 = Buffer.Buffer<Principal>(3);
let buffer2 = Buffer.Buffer<Principal>(3);
Buffer.equal(buffer1, buffer2, Principal.equal) // => true
```

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

Inequality function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 != principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.notEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 != principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `!=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `!=`
as a function value at the moment.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Less than" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 < principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.less(principal1, principal2);
principal1 < principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `<` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `<`
as a function value at the moment.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Less than or equal to" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 <= principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.lessOrEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 <= principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `<=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `<=`
as a function value at the moment.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Greater than" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 > principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.greater(principal1, principal2);
principal1 > principal2 // => false
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `>` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `>`
as a function value at the moment.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(principal1 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal], principal2 : xref:#type.Principal[Principal]) : Bool
----

"Greater than or equal to" function for Principal types.
This is equivalent to `principal1 >= principal2`.

Example:
```motoko include=import
let principal1 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
let principal2 = Principal.fromText("un4fu-tqaaa-aaaab-qadjq-cai");
ignore Principal.greaterOrEqual(principal1, principal2);
principal1 >= principal2 // => true
```

Note: The reason why this function is defined in this library (in addition
to the existing `>=` operator) is so that you can use it as a function
value to pass to a higher order function. It is not possible to use `>=`
as a function value at the moment.
