modules/base-libraries/pages/Text.adoc, before:

[[module.Text]]
= Text

Text values

This type represents human-readable text as sequences of characters of type [`Char`](Char.html) .
If `t` is a value of type `Text`, then:
* `t.chars()` returns an _iterator_ of type `Iter<Char>` enumerating its characters from first to last.
* `t.size()` returns the _size_ (or length) of `t` (and `t.chars()`) as a `Nat`.

This module defines additional operations on `Text` values.

[[fromChar]]
== fromChar

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromChar : (c : Char) -> Text
----

Conversion.
Returns the text value of size 1 containing the single character `c`.

[[toIter]]
== toIter

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toIter(t : Text) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Char>
----

Conversion.
Creates an iterator that traverses the characters of the text `t`.

[[fromIter]]
== fromIter

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromIter(cs : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Char>) : Text
----

Conversion.
Returns the text value containing the sequence of characters in `cs`.

[[size]]
== size

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func size(t : Text) : Nat
----

Returns `t.size()`, the number of characters in `t` (and `t.chars()`).

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(t : Text) : xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----

Returns a hash obtained by the `xor`-ing the (`Word32`) values of all characters in `t`.
WARNING: this is a poor hash function and will be replaced.

[[concat]]
== concat

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func concat(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Text
----

Returns the concatenation of `t1` and `t2`, `t1 # t2`.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 == t2`.

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 != t2`.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 < t2`.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 <= t2`.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 > t2`.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 >= t2`.

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the order of `t1` and `t1`.

[[join]]
== join

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func join(sep : Text, ts : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>) : Text
----

Returns the concatenation of text values in `ts`, separated by `sep`.

[[map]]
== map

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func map(t : Text, f : Char -> Char) : Text
----

Returns the result of applying `f` to each character in `ts`, concatenating the intermediate single-character text values.

[[translate]]
== translate

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func translate(t : Text, f : Char -> Text) : Text
----

Returns the result of applying `f` to each character in `ts`, concatenating the intermediate text values.

[[type.Pattern]]
== Pattern

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Pattern = {#char : Char; #text : Text; #predicate : (Char -> Bool)}
----

A pattern `p` describes a sequence of characters. A pattern has one of the following forms:

* `#char c` matches the single character sequence, `c`.
* `#predicate p` matches any single character sequence `c` satisfying predicate `p(c)`.
* `#text t` matches multi-character text sequence `t`.

A _match_ for `p` is any sequence of characters matching the pattern `p`.

[[split]]
== split

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func split(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>
----

Returns the sequence of fields in `t`, derived from start to end,
separated by text matching pattern `p`.
Two fields are separated by exactly one match.

[[tokens]]
== tokens

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func tokens(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>
----

Returns the sequence of tokens in `t`, derived from start to end.
A _token_ is a non-empty maximal subsequence of `t` not containing a match for pattern `p`.
Two tokens may be separated by one or more matches of `p`.

[[contains]]
== contains

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func contains(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns true if `t` contains a match for pattern `p`.

[[startsWith]]
== startsWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func startsWith(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns `true` if `t` starts with a prefix matching pattern `p`, otherwise returns `false`.

[[endsWith]]
== endsWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func endsWith(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns `true` if `t` ends with a suffix matching pattern `p`, otherwise returns `false`.

[[replace]]
== replace

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func replace(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern], r : Text) : Text
----

Returns `t` with all matches of pattern `p` replaced by text `r`.

[[stripStart]]
== stripStart

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func stripStart(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : ?Text
----

Returns the optioned suffix of `t` obtained by eliding exactly one leading match of pattern `p`, otherwise `null`.

[[stripEnd]]
== stripEnd

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func stripEnd(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : ?Text
----

Returns the optioned prefix of `t` obtained by eliding exactly one trailing match of pattern `p`, otherwise `null`.

[[trimStart]]
== trimStart

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trimStart(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the suffix of `t` obtained by eliding all leading matches of pattern `p`.

[[trimEnd]]
== trimEnd

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trimEnd(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the prefix of `t` obtained by eliding all trailing matches of pattern `p`.

[[trim]]
== trim

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trim(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the subtext of `t` obtained by eliding all leading and trailing matches of pattern `p`.

[[compareWith]]
== compareWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compareWith(t1 : Text, t2 : Text, cmp : (Char, Char) -> {#less; #equal; #greater}) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the lexicographic comparison of `t1` and `t2`, using the given character ordering `cmp`.

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ a7d95560997f9e7e270035ed2a19093d4d18211a 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/Text.adoc, after:

[[module.Text]]
= Text

Text values

This type represents human-readable text as sequences of characters of type [`Char`](Char.html) .
If `t` is a value of type `Text`, then:
* `t.chars()` returns an _iterator_ of type `Iter<Char>` enumerating its characters from first to last.
* `t.size()` returns the _size_ (or length) of `t` (and `t.chars()`) as a `Nat`.

This module defines additional operations on `Text` values.

[[fromChar]]
== fromChar

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let fromChar : (c : Char) -> Text
----

Conversion.
Returns the text value of size 1 containing the single character `c`.

[[toIter]]
== toIter

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toIter(t : Text) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Char>
----

Conversion.
Creates an iterator that traverses the characters of the text `t`.

[[fromIter]]
== fromIter

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromIter(cs : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Char>) : Text
----

Conversion.
Returns the text value containing the sequence of characters in `cs`.

[[size]]
== size

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func size(t : Text) : Nat
----

Returns `t.size()`, the number of characters in `t` (and `t.chars()`).

[[hash]]
== hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func hash(t : Text) : xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----

Returns a hash obtained by using the `djb2` algorithm from http://www.cse.yorku.ca/~oz/hash.html

This function is _good enough_ for use in a hash-table but it's not a cryptographic hash function!

[[concat]]
== concat

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func concat(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Text
----

Returns the concatenation of `t1` and `t2`, `t1 # t2`.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 == t2`.

[[notEqual]]
== notEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func notEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 != t2`.

[[less]]
== less

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func less(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 < t2`.

[[lessOrEqual]]
== lessOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func lessOrEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 <= t2`.

[[greater]]
== greater

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greater(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 > t2`.

[[greaterOrEqual]]
== greaterOrEqual

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func greaterOrEqual(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : Bool
----

Returns `t1 >= t2`.

[[compare]]
== compare

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compare(t1 : Text, t2 : Text) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the order of `t1` and `t1`.

[[join]]
== join

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func join(sep : Text, ts : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>) : Text
----

Returns the concatenation of text values in `ts`, separated by `sep`.

[[map]]
== map

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func map(t : Text, f : Char -> Char) : Text
----

Returns the result of applying `f` to each character in `ts`, concatenating the intermediate single-character text values.

[[translate]]
== translate

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func translate(t : Text, f : Char -> Text) : Text
----

Returns the result of applying `f` to each character in `ts`, concatenating the intermediate text values.

[[type.Pattern]]
== Pattern

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Pattern = {#char : Char; #text : Text; #predicate : (Char -> Bool)}
----

A pattern `p` describes a sequence of characters. A pattern has one of the following forms:

* `#char c` matches the single character sequence, `c`.
* `#predicate p` matches any single character sequence `c` satisfying predicate `p(c)`.
* `#text t` matches multi-character text sequence `t`.

A _match_ for `p` is any sequence of characters matching the pattern `p`.

[[split]]
== split

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func split(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>
----

Returns the sequence of fields in `t`, derived from start to end,
separated by text matching pattern `p`.
Two fields are separated by exactly one match.

[[tokens]]
== tokens

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func tokens(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : xref:Iter.adoc#type.Iter[Iter.Iter]<Text>
----

Returns the sequence of tokens in `t`, derived from start to end.
A _token_ is a non-empty maximal subsequence of `t` not containing a match for pattern `p`.
Two tokens may be separated by one or more matches of `p`.

[[contains]]
== contains

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func contains(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns true if `t` contains a match for pattern `p`.

[[startsWith]]
== startsWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func startsWith(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns `true` if `t` starts with a prefix matching pattern `p`, otherwise returns `false`.

[[endsWith]]
== endsWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func endsWith(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Bool
----

Returns `true` if `t` ends with a suffix matching pattern `p`, otherwise returns `false`.

[[replace]]
== replace

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func replace(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern], r : Text) : Text
----

Returns `t` with all matches of pattern `p` replaced by text `r`.

[[stripStart]]
== stripStart

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func stripStart(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : ?Text
----

Returns the optioned suffix of `t` obtained by eliding exactly one leading match of pattern `p`, otherwise `null`.

[[stripEnd]]
== stripEnd

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func stripEnd(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : ?Text
----

Returns the optioned prefix of `t` obtained by eliding exactly one trailing match of pattern `p`, otherwise `null`.

[[trimStart]]
== trimStart

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trimStart(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the suffix of `t` obtained by eliding all leading matches of pattern `p`.

[[trimEnd]]
== trimEnd

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trimEnd(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the prefix of `t` obtained by eliding all trailing matches of pattern `p`.

[[trim]]
== trim

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func trim(t : Text, p : xref:#type.Pattern[Pattern]) : Text
----

Returns the subtext of `t` obtained by eliding all leading and trailing matches of pattern `p`.

[[compareWith]]
== compareWith

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func compareWith(t1 : Text, t2 : Text, cmp : (Char, Char) -> {#less; #equal; #greater}) : {#less; #equal; #greater}
----

Returns the lexicographic comparison of `t1` and `t2`, using the given character ordering `cmp`.
