modules/base-libraries/pages/Timer.adoc, before:

[[module.Timer]]
= Timer

Timers for one-off or periodic tasks.

Note: If `moc` is invoked with `-no-timer`, the importing will fail.
Note: The resolution of the timers is in the order of the block rate,
      so durations should be chosen well above that. For frequent
      canister wake-ups the heatbeat mechanism should be considered.

[[type.Duration]]
== Duration

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Duration = {#seconds : Nat; #nanoseconds : Nat}
----



[[type.TimerId]]
== TimerId

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type TimerId = Nat
----



[[setTimer]]
== setTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func setTimer<$>(d : xref:#type.Duration[Duration], job : () -> async ()) : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId]
----

Installs a one-off timer that upon expiration after given duration `d`
executes the future `job()`.

Note: Since `job` can be called more than once (under rare circumstances),
      it should not possess side-effects.

```motoko no-repl
let now = Time.now();
let thirtyMinutes = 1_000_000_000 * 60 * 30;
func alarmUser() : async () {
  // ...
};
appt.reminder = setTimer(#nanoseconds (Int.abs(appt.when - now - thirtyMinutes)), alarmUser);
```

[[recurringTimer]]
== recurringTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func recurringTimer<$>(d : xref:#type.Duration[Duration], job : () -> async ()) : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId]
----

Installs a recurring timer that upon expiration after given duration `d`
executes the future `job()` and reinserts itself for another expiration.

Note: A duration of 0 will only expire once.
Note: Since `job` can be called more than once (under rare circumstances),
      it should not possess side-effects.

```motoko no-repl
func checkAndWaterPlants() : async () {
  // ...
};
let daily = recurringTimer(#seconds (24 * 60 * 60), checkAndWaterPlants);
```

[[cancelTimer]]
== cancelTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let cancelTimer : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId] -> ()
----

Cancels a still active timer with `(id : TimerId)`. For expired timers
and not recognised `id`s nothing happens.

```motoko no-repl
func deleteAppt(appt : Appointment) {
  cancelTimer (appt.reminder);
  // ...
};
```

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ 0f9c22d6865c8daaf19fd47e3ac3cd12bd9214ff 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/Timer.adoc, after:

[[module.Timer]]
= Timer

Timers for one-off or periodic tasks. Applicable as part of the default mechanism.

Note: If `moc` is invoked with `-no-timer`, the importing will fail.

Note: The resolution of the timers is in the order of the block rate,
      so durations should be chosen well above that. For frequent
      canister wake-ups the heartbeat mechanism should be considered.

Note: The functionality described below is enabled only when the actor does not override it by declaring an explicit `system func timer`.

Note: Timers are _not_ persisted across upgrades. One possible strategy
      to re-establish timers after an upgrade is to walk stable variables
      in the `post_upgrade` hook and distill necessary timer information
      from there.

Note: Basing security (e.g. access control) on timers is almost always
      the wrong choice. Be sure to inform yourself about state-of-the art
      dApp security. If you _must use_ timers for security controls, be sure
      to consider reentrancy issues, and the vanishing of timers on upgrades
      and reinstalls.

Note: For further usage information for timers on the IC please consult
      https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/backend/periodic-tasks#timers-library-limitations

[[type.Duration]]
== Duration

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Duration = {#seconds : Nat; #nanoseconds : Nat}
----



[[type.TimerId]]
== TimerId

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type TimerId = Nat
----



[[setTimer]]
== setTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func setTimer<$>(d : xref:#type.Duration[Duration], job : () -> async ()) : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId]
----

Installs a one-off timer that upon expiration after given duration `d`
executes the future `job()`.

```motoko no-repl
let now = Time.now();
let thirtyMinutes = 1_000_000_000 * 60 * 30;
func alarmUser() : async () {
  // ...
};
appt.reminder = setTimer(#nanoseconds (Int.abs(appt.when - now - thirtyMinutes)), alarmUser);
```

[[recurringTimer]]
== recurringTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func recurringTimer<$>(d : xref:#type.Duration[Duration], job : () -> async ()) : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId]
----

Installs a recurring timer that upon expiration after given duration `d`
executes the future `job()` and reinserts itself for another expiration.

Note: A duration of 0 will only expire once.

```motoko no-repl
func checkAndWaterPlants() : async () {
  // ...
};
let daily = recurringTimer(#seconds (24 * 60 * 60), checkAndWaterPlants);
```

[[cancelTimer]]
== cancelTimer

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
let cancelTimer : xref:#type.TimerId[TimerId] -> ()
----

Cancels a still active timer with `(id : TimerId)`. For expired timers
and not recognised `id`s nothing happens.

```motoko no-repl
func deleteAppt(appt : Appointment) {
  cancelTimer (appt.reminder);
  // ...
};
```
