modules/base-libraries/pages/TrieSet.adoc, before:

[[module.TrieSet]]
= TrieSet

Functional set

Sets are partial maps from element type to unit type,
i.e., the partial map represents the set with its domain.

[[type.Hash]]
== Hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Hash = xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----



[[type.Set]]
== Set

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Set<T> = xref:Trie.adoc#type.Trie[Trie.Trie]<T, ()>
----



[[empty]]
== empty

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func empty<T>() : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Empty set.

[[put]]
== put

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func put<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Put an element into the set.

[[delete]]
== delete

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func delete<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Delete an element from the set.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if two sets are equal.

[[size]]
== size

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func size<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : Nat
----

The number of set elements, set's cardinality.

[[isEmpty]]
== isEmpty

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isEmpty<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : Bool
----

Test if `s` is the empty set.

[[isSubset]]
== isSubset

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isSubset<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if `s1` is a subset of `s2`.

[[mem]]
== mem

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func mem<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

@deprecated: use `TrieSet.contains()`

Test if a set contains a given element.

[[contains]]
== contains

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func contains<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if a set contains a given element.

[[union]]
== union

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func union<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set union](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_(set_theory)).

[[diff]]
== diff

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func diff<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set difference](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Difference_(set_theory)).

[[intersect]]
== intersect

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func intersect<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set intersection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersection_(set_theory)).

[[fromArray]]
== fromArray

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromArray<T>(arr : pass:[[]Tpass:[]], elemHash : T -> xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----



[[toArray]]
== toArray

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toArray<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : pass:[[]Tpass:[]]
----

Commit message:

Deploying to doc-pages from  @ f2b7a634e34213aa5288cd2333ddfb7fa4403f6d 🚀

modules/base-libraries/pages/TrieSet.adoc, after:

[[module.TrieSet]]
= TrieSet

Functional set

Sets are partial maps from element type to unit type,
i.e., the partial map represents the set with its domain.

LIMITATIONS: This data structure allows at most MAX_LEAF_SIZE=8 hash collisions:
attempts to insert more than MAX_LEAF_SIZE elements (whether directly via `put` or indirectly via other operations) with the same hash value will trap.
This limitation is inherited from the underlying `Trie` data structure.

[[type.Hash]]
== Hash

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Hash = xref:Hash.adoc#type.Hash[Hash.Hash]
----



[[type.Set]]
== Set

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
type Set<T> = xref:Trie.adoc#type.Trie[Trie.Trie]<T, ()>
----



[[empty]]
== empty

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func empty<T>() : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Empty set.

[[put]]
== put

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func put<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Put an element into the set.

[[delete]]
== delete

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func delete<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

Delete an element from the set.

[[equal]]
== equal

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func equal<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if two sets are equal.

[[size]]
== size

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func size<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : Nat
----

The number of set elements, set's cardinality.

[[isEmpty]]
== isEmpty

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isEmpty<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : Bool
----

Test if `s` is the empty set.

[[isSubset]]
== isSubset

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func isSubset<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if `s1` is a subset of `s2`.

[[mem]]
== mem

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func mem<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

@deprecated: use `TrieSet.contains()`

Test if a set contains a given element.

[[contains]]
== contains

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func contains<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, x : T, xh : xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : Bool
----

Test if a set contains a given element.

[[union]]
== union

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func union<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set union](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Union_(set_theory)).

[[diff]]
== diff

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func diff<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set difference](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Difference_(set_theory)).

[[intersect]]
== intersect

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func intersect<T>(s1 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, s2 : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>, eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----

[Set intersection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intersection_(set_theory)).

[[fromArray]]
== fromArray

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func fromArray<T>(arr : pass:[[]Tpass:[]], elemHash : T -> xref:#type.Hash[Hash], eq : (T, T) -> Bool) : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>
----



[[toArray]]
== toArray

[source.no-repl,motoko,subs=+macros]
----
func toArray<T>(s : xref:#type.Set[Set]<T>) : pass:[[]Tpass:[]]
----
